# Design Tokens

## What Are Design Tokens

> Design tokens are the visual design atoms of the design system — specifically, they are named entities that store visual design attributes. We use them in place of hard-coded values (such as hex values for color or pixel values for spacing) in order to maintain a scalable and consistent visual system for UI development.
>
> Salesforce, Lightning Design System
## The Design Tokens Workflow

Make sure you are in the `design-tokens` directory. You will then need to make sure you are using the correct version of node and that all dependencies are installed.

```bash
nvm use
```

```bash
npm install
```
### Design Tokens NPM Scripts

There are several NPM scripts available that can be run to generate the design tokens.

#### Deleting existing Design Tokens
To delete all of the generated `scss` files from the front-end toolkits and the components, run:
```bash
npm run tokens:clean-all
```
To delete all of the generated `scss` files from the theme brand context folders, run:
```bash
npm run tokens:clean-context
```
To delete all of the generated `scss` files from the default themes brand context folder, run:
```bash
npm run tokens:clean-default
```
To delete all of the generated `scss` files from the Nature themes brand context folder, run:
```bash
npm run tokens:clean-nature
```
To delete all of the generated `scss` files from the Springer themes brand context folder, run:
```bash
npm run tokens:clean-springer
```
To delete all of the generated `scss` files from the Springer Nature themes brand context folder, run:
```bash
npm run tokens:clean-springe-rnature
```
To delete all of the generated `scss` files from the all of the components, run:
```bash
npm run tokens:clean-components
```
#### Compiling Design Tokens for the front-end toolkits themes

To generate the relevant `scss` files for the front-end toolkits from the literal Design Tokens, run:
```bash
npm run tokens:compile-literal
```
To generate the relevant `scss` files for the front-end toolkits from the alias Design Tokens, run:
```bash
npm run tokens:compile-alias
```
When these are run you may need to delete or rebuild the `index.scss` file that `@import`s all of the `scss` files in the folder. This is because the `index.scss` file is not automatically updated when the `scss` files are generated.

To delete any existing `index.scss` files, run:
```bash
npm run tokens:delete-index
```
To generate new `index.scss` files, run:
```bash
npm run tokens:build-index
```
#### Compiling Design Tokens for the front-end toolkits components

To generate the all `scss` files for the front-end toolkits brand components from the Design Tokens, run:
```bash
npm run tokens:brand-components
```
To generate the all `scss` files for the front-end toolkits components from the Design Tokens, run:
```bash
npm run tokens:components
```
note: this will override any and all existing `scss` files for the components.

To generate the `scss` file for a specific component for a specific theme the front-end tooolkits from the Design Tokens, run:
```bash
npm run tokens:component -- component-name theme
```
#### Generating Design Tokens documentation `json` files (experimental)

To generate the `json` files for the Design Tokens documentation for the Elements Design System, run:
```bash
npm run tokens:docs
```
#### Generating Design Tokens `json` for the figma tokens plugin (experimental)

To generate the `json` files for the figma-tokens plugin for Figma, run:
```bash
npm run tokens:figma
```
## Design Tokens Schema

The Design Tokens are defined in a `.json` file. The Design Tokens `json` is a set of nested json objects. The main `json` object (`aspect-ratio` in the above example) is the logical group of design properties. The first array of objects (`1x1` in the above example) is the name of the design property. Inside this object is the definition of the design property with all its necessary information, as described below:
### Design Tokens Object

- **name:** The name of the design token
- **value:** The value of the design token
- **description:** A description of the design token
- **type:** The type of the design token
- **category:** The category of the design token
- **themeable:** Whether the design token is themeable or not.
- **meta:**
  - **brand:** if the token is for a specific brand (springer, nature, springernature). If it’s a default theme, this can be omitted.
  - **public:** means that the design token will be generated by SD
  - **deprecated:** means if it’s deprecated there would be a message pointing to new value
  - **documented:** means that the design token will show up in the tokens documentation
  - **rxperimental:** if the token is part of a trial, user research, and subject to change.
  - **SassVariable:** A Sass variable is generated by SD and the value is shown in the documentation
  - **CSSCustomProperty:** A CSS Custom Property is generated by SD and the value is shown in the documentation.

#### Example

```json
{
    "aspect-ratio": {
        "1x1": {
            "name": "1x1",
            "value": "1",
            "description": "This is to make an item square",
            "type": "ratio",
            "category": "aspect-ratio",
            "themeable": false,
            "meta": {
                "public": true,
                "deprecated": false,
                "documented": true,
                "experimental": false,
                "SassVariable": true,
                "CSSCustomProperty": false
            }
        }
    }
}
```
## Design Token Tiering System

There are three tiers of Design Tokens:

- `literal`: The base set of tokens that are used to build the rest of the tokens.
- `alias`: The set of tokens that are used to build the rest of the tokens.
- `component`: The set of tokens that are used to build the rest of the tokens.

### Literal Design Tokens
These are the ‘locked’ tokens, that hold a value that should not change. The literal Design Tokens are defined in the `tokens/literal` folder. The literal Design Tokens are used to create the Alias Design Tokens.

### Alias Design Tokens
These are the ‘unlocked’ tokens, that hold a value that can change. The Alias Design Tokens are defined in the `tokens/alias` folder. The Alias Design Tokens are used to create the Component Design Tokens.

### Component Design Tokens
These are the ‘unlocked’ tokens, that hold a value that can change. The Component Design Tokens are defined in the `tokens/components` folder. The Component Design Tokens are used to create the Component Design Tokens.
## Design Token Naming Convention

With three tiers of Design Tokens, there are three naming conventions for the Design Tokens. These naming conventions include all possible options for the name but they do not all need to be used and will depend on the resulting value of the Design Token to determine which optione are used.

The naming convention for the Design Tokens is as follows:
### Literal Tokens
The literal tokens are named using the following convention:

`<category>-<property>-<value>`

Where:
- `<category>` is the category of the token (eg: spacing).
- `<property>` is the property of the token (eg: color).
- `<value>` is the value of the token (eg: 2rem).

The `<category>`, `<property>` and `<value>` are separated by a hyphen (`-`). Depending on the design property you may use either `<category>` or `<prooperty>` or both.

For example, the `color` design property does not have a `<category>` and only has a `<property>` of `color`. The `spacing` design property uses a `<category>` of `spacing` and has no `<property`>.
### Alias Tokens
The alias tokens are named using the following convention:

`<property>-<category>-<priority>-<type>-<value>`

Where:
- `<property>` is the property of the token (eg: color).
- `<category>` is the category of the token (eg: spacing).
- `<priority>` is the priority of the token (eg: primary).
- `<type>` is the type of the token (eg: solid).
- `<value>` is the value of the token (eg: 2rem).
### Component Tokens
The component tokens are named using the following convention:

`<component>-<property>-<category>-<priority>-<type>-<state>-<validation>-<value>`

Where:
- `<component>` is the component of the token (eg: button).
- `<property>` is the property of the token (eg: color).
- `<category>` is the category of the token (eg: spacing).
- `<priority>` is the priority of the token (eg: primary).
- `<type>` is the type of the token (eg: solid).
- `<state>` is the state of the token (eg: hover).
- `<validation>` is the validation of the token (eg: valid).
- `<value>` is the value of the token (eg: 2rem).


---
## Sketch File

Literal and Alias Design Tokens taken from here - https://www.sketch.com/s/fa9c2fc9-a179-43f0-b21e-9562c9c17c0c/a/g0ZP71z
